Ovi Mahajan – son of incarcerated Indian drug lord Ovi Mahajan. Sr – sneaks out of his house to visit a club with his friend. At the party, Ovi and his friend go to the garage to have a smoke, where they encounter corrupt police officers working for rival Bangladeshi drug lord Amir Asif, who shoot Ovi's friend and kidnaps him. After discovering this, Saju Rav — a former Lieutenant Colonel in the Indian Army Para Special Forces and Ovi's protector — visits Ovi's father in prison. Unwilling to pay the ransom or surrender his territories to Amir as it will hurt his prestige, Ovi's father orders Saju to retrieve his son, threatening to kill Saju's own son if he is unwilling to do so. Tyler Rake, a former Australian Army Special Air Service Regiment (SASR) operator turned black-market mercenary, is recruited by his handler Nik Khan to save Ovi from Dhaka, Bangladesh.
Tyler and Khan's team prepare to extract Ovi, with his father's men set to pay them once Ovi is recovered. Tyler saves Ovi, kills his captors, and takes him to the extraction point. Learning of Ovi's escape, Asif orders the head of the local police, Colonel Rashid, to initiate an immediate lockdown of Dhaka, securing all bridges and travel points out of the city. Ovi's father's men intentionally fail to transfer the funds as it is revealed that Ovi Sr's bank account has been frozen by the authorities, so he had no means to pay the mercenaries in the first place. Saju kills Tyler's teammates and tries to kill Tyler so he can save Ovi himself and cheat the mercenaries out of their payment. Khan arranges for a helicopter to extract Tyler outside the city and tells him to abandon Ovi since the contract has been nullified.
Tyler refuses to leave Ovi behind, haunted by memories of his own son, whom he abandoned after he couldn't stand seeing him suffer from lymphoma any longer. After escaping Saju and the corrupt Dhaka Metropolitan Police tactical units on Asif's payroll, Tyler fights off a gang of boys led by Farhad, a young criminal eager to impress Asif. Tyler calls his friend Gaspar, a retired squad-mate living in Dhaka, and he and Ovi lay low at Gaspar's home for the evening. Gaspar reveals Asif has placed a $10,000,000 bounty on Ovi, which he offers to share if Tyler allows him to kill Ovi. Tyler refuses and fights Gaspar, who gains the upper hand but is foolishly shot by Ovi with Gaspar's own gun. Tyler calls Saju and asks for his help, forcing them to team up to escape Dhaka.
Tyler draws attention away from a disguised Saju and Ovi as the two make their way through a bridge checkpoint before following to cover their escape. Khan and her remaining mercenaries approach from the opposite side of the bridge, as Asif watches from afar with binoculars. In the ensuing firefight, Saju is shot by Rashid, who is in turn shot by Khan. Wounded, Tyler instructs Ovi to run to Khan's waiting helicopter. As a badly wounded Tyler follows, he is shot in the neck by Farhad and seeing Ovi is safe, falls into the river. Ovi, Khan, and the extraction team escape to Mumbai and safety. Eight months later, Khan encounters Asif in a restroom and promptly shoots him. Ovi jumps into his school's swimming pool to practice holding his breath, mirroring the scene where Tyler is introduced. He surfaces to see a blurred vision of a man, resembling Tyler, watching him.