In New York City, John Wick is grieving the death of his wife Helen, who had arranged for John to receive a beagle puppy to help him cope with her loss. A few days later, a group of Russian gangsters led by Iosef Tarasov accosts John at a gas station and fail to intimidate him into selling them his 1969 Ford Mustang.[b] That night, the men break into John's home, assault him, kill the puppy, and steal the car. Iosef takes the Mustang to a chop shop to remove its identifying details but the shop owner Aurelio recognizes the vehicle and refuses service. Aurelio informs John that Iosef is the son of Viggo Tarasov, the boss of New York City's Russian mafia.
Learning of his son's actions, Viggo beats and berates Iosef for incurring John's wrath. Viggo reveals John was once a hitman in his employ, and was renowned and feared in the criminal underworld as the "Baba Yaga", a ruthless, relentless "man of focus, commitment, and sheer will". After John fell in love with Helen, a civilian, Viggo gave him a seemingly impossible task to earn his freedom.
John recovers a concealed stash from his former career that includes weapons and gold coins. He refuses Viggo's attempt to make amends for his son's actions and kills the hit squad subsequently sent to his home. As a result, Viggo puts a $2 million bounty on John's head and his former mentor Marcus is enlisted to kill John. John lodges at the Continental, a luxurious hotel that serves as neutral ground for the underworld and where conducting criminal "business" is forbidden. The hotel's owner and John's old friend Winston warns John about the dangers of returning to his old life but also secretly informs John that Iosef is at a nightclub called Red Circle. John infiltrates Red Circle and confronts Iosef but he is attacked by Viggo's henchman Kirill and is forced to retreat to the Continental for medical attention.
As John rests, a hitwoman named Ms. Perkins sneaks into his room. Marcus sees Perkins from an adjacent building and fires a warning shot to alert John, who wakes up and subdues Perkins. Perkins reveals Viggo has doubled the bounty for her to kill John in the hotel. She also discloses Viggo has concealed a high-value stash in a church. John hires another hitman named Harry to secure Perkins but she escapes and kills Harry.
At the church, John destroys Viggo's cache of cash and extensive blackmail material. When Viggo arrives to assess the damage, John assaults him and his men but is hit by Kirill's car and captured. John tells Viggo he will not stop until Iosef is dead because the puppy gave him hope and a chance to not be alone in his grief for Helen. Marcus again intervenes to save John, allowing him to kill Kirill and threaten Viggo into revealing his son's location in a safehouse. John assaults the safehouse and kills Iosef. Marcus encourages John to return to his everyday life but Perkins witnesses their meeting and reveals Marcus's duplicity to Viggo. Viggo has Marcus tortured and killed then calls John to taunt him with the details, drawing him back to the city.
Perkins is executed at Winston's behest for breaking the Continental's rules, and Winston informs John that Viggo is preparing to leave the city by helicopter. John races to New York Harbor, where he fights and mortally wounds Viggo. Resigned to dying from his injuries, John watches on his phone a video of Helen telling him they need to go home. He breaks into a nearby animal clinic, treats his wounds, and adopts a pit bull puppy scheduled to be euthanized before beginning to walk home.