John Rambo, a Vietnam War veteran, goes to a lake house looking for an old comrade, only to learn that his friend died of cancer, brought on by exposure to Agent Orange during the war. He apologizes to the soldier's wife for her loss and gives her a photo of the pair and the rest of their unit, Baker Team.
Continuing his travels, Rambo reaches the town of Hope, Washington. The sheriff, Will Teasle, heads him off and drives him to the outskirts of town, explaining that he considers it his job to keep drifters out of Hope. Neglecting the sheriff's warning, Rambo returns to Hope. Enraged, Teasle arrests Rambo on charges of vagrancy, resisting arrest, and possessing a concealed knife. Led by the sadistic chief deputy Art Galt, Teasle's officers abuse Rambo, triggering flashbacks of the torture he endured in Vietnam. When they try to dry shave him with a straight razor, Rambo snaps. He fights his way out of the station, regains his knife, steals a motorcycle and flees into the woods. Teasle organizes a search party with automatic weapons, dogs, and a helicopter.
Defying Teasle's orders, Galt attempts to shoot Rambo from the helicopter. Cornered on a high cliff, Rambo leaps into a tree, injuring his right arm. With Galt still shooting at him, Rambo throws a rock at the helicopter, breaking its windshield and causing the pilot to briefly lose control. Losing his balance, Galt falls to his death. Rambo tries to surrender to Teasle, saying that Galt's death was an accident and that he wants no more trouble, but the officers shoot at him, and he flees. Teasle swears revenge.
Using booby traps and his bare hands, Rambo non-lethally subdues all the deputies. Rambo holds a knife to Teasle's throat. He threatens war if Teasle does not give up the pursuit, before retreating further into the woods. The Washington State Patrol and Washington National Guard are brought in to assist Teasle, along with Rambo's mentor and former commanding officer, Colonel Sam Trautman.
Trautman advises that Rambo should be allowed to escape to the next town in order to defuse the situation, then be permitted to surrender peacefully later. Confident that Rambo is hopelessly outnumbered, Teasle refuses. He allows Trautman to contact Rambo and try to persuade him to give himself up. Rambo  refuses to come in, condemning Teasle and his deputies for their abuse.
At the entrance of an abandoned mine, a National Guard detachment corners Rambo. Ignoring Teasle's instructions to wait for his arrival, the guardsmen fire a rocket launcher, collapsing the entrance and seemingly killing Rambo. Rambo goes deeper into the rat infested mine. He finds a way out, hijacks an Army supply truck carrying an M60 machine gun and ammunition, and returns to town to cause as much damage as possible.
In an effort to distract the officers, Rambo blows up a gas station, shoots out most of the town's power, and destroys a sporting goods store close to the police station. Trautman, understanding that the sheriff is outmatched, tries again to convince Teasle to leave Rambo be. The sheriff ignores his orders and attempts to locate and kill Rambo. Rambo spots Teasle on the police station's roof, and shoots him. Teasle falls through a skylight.
As Rambo prepares to kill him, Trautman appears and warns Rambo that he will be killed unless he surrenders, reminding him that he is the last survivor of his elite unit of Green Berets. Rambo vents about the horrors of war and his traumatic experiences: watching his friends die in Vietnam, being unable to hold a job due to his PTSD, the nasty treatment he received from his fellow Americans when he came home, and being forgotten by the country that he sacrificed so much for. He breaks down crying as he recounts how one comrade was killed by a Vietcong child soldier using a shoeshine box wired with explosives. After being comforted by Trautman, Rambo surrenders and is taken into federal custody, while Teasle is taken to a waiting ambulance for transport to the hospital.