Robert McCall lives a quiet life in Boston, where he works at a hardware store. He helps his colleague Ralphie train to become a security guard and, unable to sleep, often spends his nights reading at an all-night diner. There, he befriends Teri, a teenage prostitute trafficked by the Russian mob. The pair talk about Robert's books and, eventually, Teri shares that her real name is Alina and she dreams of being a singer.
One day Robert hears that Alina was badly beaten and is in the hospital. He travels there and learns from her friend Mandy, another prostitute, that her pimp Slavi is responsible. 
Robert finds Slavi and his men at their restaurant and offers to buy Alina's freedom, which Slavi bluntly refuses. Robert expertly kills the men and leaves. 
Unbeknownst to Robert, Slavi and his men were part of a much larger syndicate led by Russian oligarch Vladimir Pushkin. Teddy Rensen, Pushkin's enforcer, arrives in Boston to investigate the attack. Aided by Boston PD detectives on Pushkin's payroll, Masters, Remar and Pederson, Teddy canvases rival gangs in the area, beating Irish mob lieutenant "Little" John Looney to death simply to send the message "I'm here."
Robert continues exacting vigilante justice on criminals he encounters, blackmailing two corrupt police officers to return racketeering money, and beating a gunman with a hammer after he robs the hardware store and steals co-worker Jenny's heirloom ring.
Teddy learns Robert's identity from Mandy, then murders her. He visits Robert at his apartment, posing as a police detective, but Robert sees through his guise. Teddy and the crooked detectives attempt twice to abduct Robert, but he evades them.
Robert travels to his friends and retired former DIA colleagues, Susan and Brian Plummer, asking Susan's help in identifying Rensen. She informs him that the five men he killed were a wing of Pushkin's operation, and that Rensen's real name is Nikolai Itchenko; he is a Spetsnaz operative, turned Russian secret police agent, and now an enforcer for Pushkin. She also informs him that Nikolai murdered Remar and Pederson and Masters has not been heard from in days.
Robert tracks Masters down and interrogates him, forcing him to turn himself in after shutting down one of Pushkin's money laundering warehouses and using evidence gathered by Masters to expose many of Pushkin's moles.
He confronts Nikolai again, threatening to do more damage if he persists in hunting him, and later destroys two of Pushkin's oil tankers.
Nikolai abducts Robert's co-workers at the hardware store and demands a trade. Robert arrives and kills the men guarding the hostages, setting them free. Ralphie stays behind to help Robert. Nikolai arrives with his men, whom Robert kills one by one with improvised weapons and traps. As Nikolai is about to kill Ralphie, Robert kills him with a nail gun.
Days later, Robert finds Pushkin at his Moscow Mansion, killing all of his guards and tricking Pushkin into electrocuting himself to death.
Returning home, Robert is found by Alina, now recovered and having found a job and started a new life with the money Robert anonymously gave her. She thanks him for his help.
Inspired to continue using his skills to help people in need, Robert posts online ads as The Equalizer.